(1)Every semester the Institute offers some courses, taught by faculty appointed by it.(2)A course may be of 4, 2, or 1 credit. A registered student who passes a course earns the credits assigned for that course.a)A 4-credit course.The course will have 3 hours of lectures per week, with a total of  about  39  hours  of  lectures  (13  weeks).  In  addition,  one  hour  of  interaction  per week is expected, which may be in form of structured tutorials. There may also be labs in the course.b)A  2-credit  course.  The  course  will  have  1.5  hoursoflectures  per  week  for  the wholesemester,  or  3  hoursoflectures  per  week  for  half  the  semester.  The  total lectures  hours  will  be  about  20.  Intensive  short-term  courses  of  2  credits  are  also possible, though it is expected that the duration of such a course will benoless than 3 weeks.A 2-credit course may or may not have tutorials and labs.c)A  1-credit  course.  The  course  is  likely  to  be  run  as  a  short  course  on  a  very specialized topic. Such courses may also be run during vacations. A 1-credit course will  have  a  total  of  about  10  hours  of  lecture  over  a  period  of,  generally,  not  less than 2 weeks.d)Certain coursessuch as Self–Growth(SG), Community Work(CW), may be taken for varyingnumber of creditson case to case basis.(3)While taking courses in the Institute is the primary means for a student to earn credits, there may be other approved provisions for earning credit through projects, studying in other Institutions and transferring credits, etc. Such provisions will be provided in these or other regulations. (4)Online Courses IIIT-Delhi has evolved a system for allowing students to take online courses. Students can take advantage of the increasing amount of such courses made available by reputed universities across the world to complement the courses offered in the institute.1.A B.Tech. student is allowedtoregister foronline courses(OC) as regular courses (andnot   in the category   of Independent   Project   (IP)/Independent   Study (IS)/Undergraduate Research (UR)/B.Tech. Project (BTP)).2.The limit “one course in a semester” for OC means that “no more than 4 credits of OC can be taken in a semester”.3.A student can take upto 8 credits of Online Courses in his B.Tech. degree.

