One  of  the  letter  grades  given  in  the  following  table  shall  be  awarded  to  a  student reflecting his/her overall performance in a course. Each letter grade carries certain points as given in the table, and these points are used in the computation of the SGPA/CGPA as explained later.
2)In  the  academic  courses,  the  final  grades  awarded  are  A  to  F  (A+  is  a  grade  with  same points as A, and is there to honor excellence). (3)An I(Incomplete) grade may be awarded in cases when all the requirements for a course are not met by the student at the time of submission of grades and it essentially reflects as an  “incomplete”  status  in  theEvaluation  Resource  Planning(ERP)  system.  For  all courses including project-based courses, this grade must be converted to a regular  grade within  one  month  of  the  end  of  the  current  term  (i.e.,  the moderation  date).  For  courses other  than  project  /  independent  study,  incomplete  grade  “I”  is  meant  primarily  for medical reasons. All unconverted “I” grades are automatically converted to F grade after the grade conversion deadline, which is one month after the moderation date.(4)In certain courses, such as Online Courses(OC, Self-Growth (SG and Community Work(CWcourses, only S or X grade is awarded.(5)The  F  and  X  grades  are  “fail”  grades  and  the  student  shall  be  required  to  repeat  the course.  If the course is a compulsory course, the student shall repeat the same course in 
10another  semester/summer  when  the  course  is  offered.  In  the  case  of  an  elective/optional course, the student can replace the course by another elective course. (6)For at most one compulsory(core)course, after getting an F twice in the course, a student may be  allowed  to  replace  it  by  an  elective  course of  the respective  disciplinewith  thepriorapproval from DOAA.(7)An F and X grade obtained in any course shall be reflected in the grade sheet. However,when  the  course  is  replaced  or  repeated,  the  new  grade  will  be  used  for  computation  of the CGPA. The pass grade for the respective course will count towards the SGPA of the semester  in  which  the  course  is  passed  and  not  in  the  semester  where  ‘F’  grade  was awarded. ‘F’  grade  shall  not  be  counted  in  the  calculation  of  CGPA, althoughit  is counted in the calculation of SGPA