In  general, students  will  take  courses  as  per  the  program.  Normal  load  for the first  and second  year  students  is  16-20  credits  and  for the third  and  fourth  year  students  is  16-22 credits. When  a  student  registers  for  more  credits  than  the  stipulated  normal  load,  it  is  called  the overload. First  year  students cannot  take  any  overload.  Second  year  students  having  a CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of upto 2 additional credits over 20 credits. Third and fourth year students having a CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of upto 2 additional credits over 22 credits.When the student registers for less than 16 credits in a semester, it is called the underload. A student may be allowed, with permission of the DOAA an underloadof a maximum of 4 credits below 16 credits. Students under academic warning may not be permitted any  overload. Such students may be advised by DOAA to take an underload. Students  can  avail  underload  below  12  credits  (as  low  as  4  credits)  only  in  one  semester during  their  entire  B.Tech.program.  For  this,prior  permission  is  required  to  be  taken 
8before  the  last  date  of  add/drop  of  that  particular  semester.  Students  wanting  to  avail internship  (industrial,  academic,  research,  etc.)  without  taking  semester  leave  can  do  so with  prior  approval  of  the  DOAA  in  only  one  semester  of  their  degree  program.  Such request  needs  to  be  placed  at  least  two  days  before  the  last  date  of  add/drop.  Students approved    for    such    internship    are    required    to    register    for    4    credits    of    only IP/IS/UR/BTP/OC courses in this semester. Students will not be allowed to do any in-class course  duringtheinternshipperiod.  Further,  the  underload  of  as  low  as  4  credits  can  be availed  by  ECE,  CSAM  and  CSSS  students  in  any  semester  of  the  3rdand  4thyear,  while CSE, CSD and CSB students can do soonly in the 8thSemeste